---
layout: default
title: "Kobolds"
published: false
parent: "Factions"
permalink: /factions/kobolds/
---
The kobolds of [Stonehell](Locations/Stonehell%20Prison.md) have the dubious distinction of being the first monstrous race to inhabit the prison. When the Sterling Potentate's troops discovered a kobold warren, his vizier suggested introducing the captured humanoids into the prison as one of his experiment variables. Upon their arrival, the kobolds did what they do best: grovel and adapt. They gained grudging acceptance by serving as custodians, slave labor, messengers, trap repairmen, and toadies to the more powerful prisoner power blocs. After the prison was liberated, these scaly humanoids stayed on in this capacity.

The kobolds in [Stonehell](Locations/Stonehell%20Prison.md) are used to being bossed around by others and adopt a servile attitude, fawning and whimpering whenever they encounter more powerful creatures. This obsequiousness not only applies to other monsters, but adventurers as well. When first encountered, kobolds have a -3 modifier to the initial roll on the Monster Reaction Table. They never attack first, but will defend themselves if met with violence. Subsequent rolls on the Monster Reaction Table are unmodified.

The kobolds are all-too aware of their precarious position in the dungeon‘s hierarchy. They do their best to maintain an appearance of neutrality to the dungeon‘s other sentient races and avoid taking any action or providing information that might upset this perceived state or anger a stronger monster race. Nonetheless, the kobolds aren‘t adverse to bribes if they think their treachery will not be noticed, nor will they hesitate in double-crossing or ambushing a supposedly superior power (including adventurers) if they‘re sure they can get away with it.

# Level 1d: Kobold Korners
Ever since their arrival, the kobolds of [Stonehell](Locations/Stonehell%20Prison.md) Prison have served as the dungeon‘s caretakers, custodians, and service personnel. [Stonehell's](Locations/Stonehell%20Prison.md) population has changed over the years, but the kobold‘s presence has remained constant. These creatures have made a home for themselves on the uppermost level of the dungeon and this location has become neutral ground for Stonehell‘s sentient monsters. Here, under the careful scrutiny of the kobolds and their hired bugbear thugs, the denizens of the dungeon gather to trade, relax, and negotiate agreements. Violence still occurs in Kobold Korners, but so long as it doesn‘t compromise the course of daily life, it is tolerated. Grievous breaches of the peace are nevertheless handled quickly and fatally. Adventurers from the surface are accepted in Kobold Korners provided they surrender their weapons in area #19, behave themselves, and are not known to have slain kobolds in other sections of the dungeon.

Kobold Korners shares this dungeon section with the lair of a forgotten magic-user. The passage of years has erased this lair‘s existence from the kobold‘s knowledge and these halls and chambers lay waiting to be rediscovered. These rooms once served as the magic- user‘s laboratory and a school for his students, and the eldritch energies birthed by the strange experiments conducted there have left their mark upon the place. Weird monsters, forgotten magics, and bizarre effects pervade the lair.