---
layout: default
title: "The Hobgoblin Occupational Army"
published: false
parent: "Factions"
permalink: /factions/the-hobgoblin-occupational-army/
---
These goblinoids are part of the Hobgoblin Occupational Army, a military force that seeks to take control over the lands surrounding [Stonehell](Locations/Stonehell%20Prison.md). They are recent arrivals to the dungeon and plan to use the former prison as a central command post from which to coordinate their domination of the outlying territories. The hobgoblins are well-trained and disciplined, far more so then their smaller goblin cousins. They employ any and all methods available to outmaneuver and outwit their opponents, including forming shield walls, using spears and pole arms to keep enemies at a distance, coordinated missile barrages, and outflanking their foes. Of all the creatures in the upper levels of Stonehell, the hobgoblins present the most immediate threat to nearby settlements. Once reinforcements arrive to consolidate their control over the dungeon‘s upper two levels, the hobgoblins will begin a focused campaign against the surface races. Unless stopped now, the hobgoblins are poised to become a major menace in the months to come.

# Level 2d: The Hobgoblin Redoubt
During the years that the prison was active, these rooms served as residences, workshops, and small recreational venues. In the years after the liberation, consecutive waves of inhabitants rerouted corridors, added defensive bottlenecks, and built new improvements in this area to form a defendable stronghold against rival dungeon factions.

It is ironic that with all the modifications and additional excavation that occurred within this area, the residents (both inmate and monstrous) never discovered how close these chambers lay to a possible avenue of escape. A mere thirty feet beyond one stretch of corridor lay a cave system that exits onto the surface above. Had the whims of Fate decreed otherwise, [Stonehell's](Locations/Stonehell%20Prison.md) prisoners might have discovered a means to escape their subterranean nightmare long before their decline into depravity. This secret might have remained undiscovered if it had not been for the recent arrival of an expeditionary force of hobgoblins.

This group of hobgoblins, the 6th Century of the 9th Cohort of the Hobgoblin Occupational Army, arrived in the foothills in search of a staging area to launch raids into the lands of Men. While exploring the cave system, which they planned to use as a supply cache, one of the engineers noticed a fissure in a cavern wall. Preliminary excavations widened the crack until the fitted stone walls of the prison were discovered beyond. After breaking though the mortared stone, the hobgoblins were excited to discover a defendable redoubt and quickly occupied most of this dungeon section. They are now waiting on the arrival of reinforcements; after which they plan to take control of the upper levels of [Stonehell](Locations/Stonehell%20Prison.md) and then terrorize the nearby civilized lands. In preparation for this day, patrols and spies have been dispatched into adjacent quadrants of this level to test the strength and defenses of their subterranean neighbors.